TONGUE ... TwisTER§ A tongue-twister is a sequence of words that is difficult to pronounce quickly and correctly. Even native English speakers fmd the tongue-twisters on this page difikcult to say quickly. Try them yourself. Try to say them as fast as possible, but correctly! 
• A proper copper coffee pot.
 • Around the rugged rocks the ragged rascals ran.
  • Long legged ladies last longer. 
  • Pink lorry, yellow lorry. 
  • Red leather, yellow leather, red leather, yellow leather.
  • She sells sea-shells on the sea-shore. 
  • The sixth sick Sheik's sixth sheep is sick. 
  • Swan swam over the pond, • Swim swan swim! • Swan swam back again -• Well swum swan! • Three grey geese in green fields grazing. • We surely shall see the sun shine soon. • A box of biscuits, a box of mixed biscuits, mixed biscuits and a II Tongue-Twisters biscuit mixer. • A proper copper coffee pot. • How much wood would a wood-chuck chuck if a wood-chuck could chuck wood? • A wood-chuck, if a wood-chuck could chuck wood, would chuck as much wood as a wood-chuck could chuck if a wood-chuck could chuck wood. • Long legged ladies last longer. • Three grey geese in green fields grazing. • We surely shall see the sun shine soon. • Round and round the rugged rock the ragged rascal ran • She sells sea shells on the seashore, the shells she sells are seashells I'm sure. But if she sells sea-shells on the seashore I'm sure she sells seashore shells. • What noise annoys an oyster? Any noise annoys an oyster, but noisy noise annoys an oyster most. • Red leather, yellow leather, red leather, yellow leather. • Red lorry, yellow lorry. • Unique New York. • Which witch wished which wicked wish? Which wristwatches are Swiss wristwatches? The sixth sick sheik's sixth sheep's sick. • Betty Botter bought some butter, but the butter was so bitter, if Betty Botter put the bitter butter in her batter, the bitter butter would make her batter bitter, so it was better Betty Botter bought some better butter, so the better butter would not make her batter bitter. • Bill had a billboard. Bill also had a board bill. The board bill bored Bill so Bill sold the billboard to pay the board bill. Mter , 11 116 Spoken English II Bill sold the billboard to pay the board bill, the board bill no longer bored Bill. • Sir Harry Harvey hit his head very hard with a heavy hammer and Happy Henry was hopping mad. However his heavy hammer hadn't hurt his highness hard head. • Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper. • Did Peter Piper pick a peck of pickled pepper? • If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper, • Where's the peck of pickled pepper Peter Piper picked? • Rhys watched Ross switch his Irish wristwatch for a Swiss wristwatch. • I wish to wash my Irish wristwatch. • Near an ear, a nearer ear, a nearly eerie ear. • On a lazy laser raiser lies a laser ray eraser. • Scissors sizzle, thistles sizzle. • Tom threw Tim three thumbtacks. • How much caramel can a canny canonball cram in a camel if a canny canonball can cram caramel in a camel? • He threw three free throws. • Fresh French fried fly fritters • Gig whip, gig whip, gig whip, ... • I was born on a pirate ship. • Say it while holding your tongue. • 2 Y's U R. • 2 Y's U B. • leUR. II Tongue-Twisters 11711 • 2 Y's 4 me! • Yellow butter, purple jelly, red jam, black bread. • Spread it thick, say it quick! 
  • Yellow butter, purple jelly, red jam, black bread. 
  • Spread it thicker, say it quicker!
   • Yellow butter, purple jelly, red jam, black bread. 
  • Don't eat with your mouth full! 
  • I'll chew and chew until my jaws drop. 
  • How many sheets could a sheet slitter slit if a sheet slitter could slit sheets